If the future of blockchain and crypto
is stable coins, we've ultimately
failed,
[Music]
right? Hey everyone, welcome to the
Smart Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neo newstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Alan Orwick,
the CEO of Dominant Strategies, a
development entity creating tooling and
applications on the Quai network.
In this conversation, we discussed the
broader stable coin and proc crypto
movement in the US. Why Kai focuses on a
volatility reduced coin and not a stable
coin. The improvements Qui has made on
proofof work consensus. Qui's dual token
model and the relationship between hash
rate and the Quai andqi tokens and so
much more. Just a reminder, nothing said
on this podcast is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens and that the guest or
hosts might hold tokens discussed in any
given episode. You can check out a full
disclaimer on
www.newtoday.com. If you enjoyed this
episode, please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
also share it with your friends and
family. Every rating, review, like, and
comment helps us reach more people and
bring you more of your favorite guests.
With all that said, I really enjoyed
speaking with Allan, and I hope you
enjoy the conversation, too. What's up,
everybody? Welcome to the Smart Economy
podcast. Today, we're joined by Alan
Orwick, the CEO of Dominant Strategies,
a development entity creating tooling
and applications on Quai Network. How
you doing today, Alan? Doing well,
Dylan. Thanks for having me. Yeah, I'm
excited to jump into this conversation.
I think maybe we could just like uh
paint the picture for the lay of the
land for how I want the combo to go and
then we'll let it flow. Um just get a
little bit of your background and then
kind of like at an overarching level
your perspective on stable coins in
general in the US and as an emerging
vertical in the blockchain space and
then we can kind of uh hone in and and
wrap up on Quai and all the cool things
you guys are working on. So, I love to
start all of these conversations off
with what's your genesis story? When was
the first time you heard about Bitcoin,
Ethereum? Were you a broke college
student and you said that's not for me
or did you get hooked immediately? Did
it take a few years for you to fall down
the rabbit hole? What's your story like?
So, I actually was a broke college
student and I was uh in my freshman
year, senior year of high school,
freshman year here at UT Austin. You
know, our team is based out of the
Austin area, so still very near and dear
to my heart there. And I was always
interested in programming coding. So
whenever I discovered crypto, I was
like, you can do a lot of cool stuff
with this. So between buying fake IDs
and learning more about
decentralization, that was kind of the
initial spark and was actually
interested enough to go and start the
undergraduate organization here at UT.
So grew Texas blockchain as the founding
president of that to 200 students. We
started some of the first course work at
UT. So, a one-hour course on blockchain
and crypto, Bitcoin, and others. Had a
lot of guests in from around the Austin
area and people from out of state as
well. And then eventually that led to
doing a lot of the research and sort of
more in-depth work around scaling
blockchain technology and some of the
things that ultimately led to Quai. So,
it was pretty fun, you know, uh, growing
community around the Austin area. Went
to a lot of the Bitcoin meetups and and
met a lot of the, you know, the wizards
and the cipher punks and the people that
were developing a lot of the code and
tech. Austin has a very Bitcoinheavy
scene. So definitely you get a lot of
those, you know, Bitcoin wildcatterers
and people that actually do a lot of the
Bitcoin mining and then people that do a
lot of the development too. So a lot of
great ethos there and and people around
that spirit. That was kind of my journey
in and have kind of been in and out of
uh Bitcoin and blockchain since and all
the other different pieces. You know, I
explore all sorts of ecosystems. I'm a
uh you know, crypto native. So if
there's a chain out, I love to
experiment and try new tech and
definitely bring as much as we can back
to Quai. Yeah. What was the the vibe
like in Austin and Texas basically since
the pandemic? Because that was when a
lot of folks left New York, they left
California. And with that comes the
brain drain of like tech oriented folks.
And around those times as well, a lot of
the coastal cities were really getting
into like DeFi during DeFi summer. And
you were starting to see just like a lot
more of a a surge in blockchain and web
3 and DAP development. So from your
perspective, what was it like to have
this influx of brand new blockchain
minds while you were kind of going
through your studies and and onboarding
into into working in the space? Yeah, I
mean Austin has always been pretty
techfocused. You know, they call it
Silken Hills and there's always been a
presence. We were talking on the podcast
before how Apple's here, Samsung's here,
IBM's here, and even since like the 80s,
it's always been a pretty techheavy
city. So there was always a little bit
of that lore and a little bit of that
like allure of people coming and and
doing software here. And then I think co
really accelerated that. So throughout
my undergrad, so like 2016 to 2020, as I
said, there were the Bitcoin meetups
that were more like chill local, like
you go talk to anyone about Bitcoin.
That was before like you had the, you
know, full explosion of L1's and L2s. So
it was it was pretty focused on
individual things. And I think nowadays,
uh, those still go on or those still
exist. And so there's a lot of companies
that were focused on that. Like I think
Consensus had some spin-off companies
here and there were different
representatives from different
ecosystems. I know Avalanche was a
pretty heavy focus here as well. So
there's always been sort of that
presence of crypto. And then we also
kind of added on top of that had the
conference circuit here. So there was
consensus a few times and then a few
different iterations of other
conferences. I know for uh Texas
Blockchain the the club, we actually
hosted a few conferences ourselves and
so we were kind of like the main
conference for a year or two which was
pretty fun to organize as students. I
was doing uh a few rounds I had to serve
my time in the Bitcoin costume. So there
was a big Bitcoin costume that like had
no fan inside of it. So you'd go and be
like, "All right, it's your turn to go
do the Bitcoin costume." And you just go
sweat for like six hours as you walk
around the conference. So uh you know
going again back to your question on you
know postcoid it definitely accelerated
it and I think a lot of people being
more at home uh kind of fit in too with
the remote vibe and I think now the
people that are you know still around in
crypto kind of going again through this
bare cycle depending on what people
decide to do more activities kind of
coming back around and ideally you know
more actual like in person and more
facilitation around crypto can be sort
of spurred by that sort of already good
base that exists here. Yeah. And would
you say that during your your time as a
student, you were seeing just kind of
like a continued in interest in in
blockchain and Bitcoin and crypto? I
only ask because I myself lived in the
Bay Area from 2015 to 2018. And during
that time, largely up until like the
very end of the ICO boom, a lot of
incumbent triad developers and um
development companies there would kind
of roll their eyes when they would talk
when I would talk to them about crypto.
And it was just so strange because now I
hear like Silicon Valley is is the web3
hub of of the west coast and all this
stuff and that just wasn't my experience
back in the
mid210s. So did you see that as well or
am I just kind of like using a random
subjective case? No, I mean it it
definitely uh grew and it dissipated
pretty quickly. So whenever we started
Texas Blockchain in the fall of 2017,
that was sort of like peak ICO era. And
so we we were able to have like the room
full of students and like room full of
people and like we had all sorts of
guests and it was great. And it was like
just for those like four months. And
then it just completely tanked and then
ETH went back down to like 80 bucks. And
so at some point in like 2019 we go from
like 150 people in a room everyone's
super excited about to like five people
in a room. And they're like what is
everyone here still here for? And I
remember actually going to the Bay Area
for a conference. I went uh it was one
of the like main crypto conferences that
was in SF and Vitalic was talking uh I
want to say in like 2018 late 2018 and
uh you know the founders of Avalanche
were there as well and it was still very
much like you know uh very research
focused and like everyone was focused on
the right thing and the vibes were
completely different and then you kind
of all got it rearing back again in 2021
and that was sort of post my time. So
fortunately, you know, a lot of the the
club was able to remain around and there
was those dedicated people that saw the
vision and the things that we talked
about, but it definitely sort of came
and went and we had a lot of great
people that were, you know, centered
around that. Like Jimmy Song was a
pretty big Bitcoiner. He he would come
to the club pretty often. Kyle Sani sort
of like pre- Salana days was able to
come because he's he's around the area
as well. There were some Monero devs,
too. So definitely all sorts of
different people in the mix. Yeah, man.
I I look back on those events in 2018
fondly. um like ETH Denver 2019 when
when ETH was $80, the vibes were so high
and yeah, maybe you didn't have like 90%
of the froth there, but the 10% of the
people that stuck behind were true
lifers. Um a couple years ago, maybe
about three years ago now, uh I had the
opportunity to travel with the NEO
ecosystem. Neo is probably a name you
might recognize from the days. uh we
went to 10 different universities across
the US, mostly the Midwest and the West
Coast, and got to talk to a lot of
blockchain clubs. And so, as a result, I
myself have tried to support students in
the local blockchain clubs here at the
universities in Colorado. And one of the
things I've noticed is there's every two
years you get this handoff. So, there's
there's a new wave of leadership. So, I
guess maybe um what was like a lesson
you learned about like succession
planning or how is there like a golden
nugget that you can give to like current
blockchain club leaders at universities
for how they can plan to create like a
more longer term outlook on their clubs?
Yeah, it's definitely challenging
structurally anywhere, right? And as
someone not only as a leader that's
previously had that experience leading
an organization, but also now leading a
a company, it's definitely tough just in
terms of like documentation and
communications. So meeting notes are
like number one. It's like the basic
stuff, right? It's like calendar,
meeting notes, like structure, like do
we have expectations across the
organization? And then having to like
have those, you know, succession plans
and like talking about it because you
have to to find that and then ensuring
that you sort of keep people interested
and have those events. So like one of
the big things too with that is like
yeah people care about crypto but they
also care about going out to the bars
and drinking and having social events.
So like if you can make it fun, if you
can make it interesting, then those are
the things that I think help with that
whenever the time is right and then also
help just keep people involved. Yeah.
Are you still going back maybe like once
a year to to give a talk to the club?
Are you still Yeah, I'll be there on
Friday. So I'm doing a I'm doing a pitch
competition with these guys. I'll be a
judge. So that and then of course like
you know there's other organizations
around Austin too like ATX DAO and sort
of Texas Blockchain Council and and all
these other things that also are
involved with the the student group
there. So getting those people involved
and then trying to help students as much
as possible because you know those are
the people that can create cool stuff
like if they're done with finals and
they got like three weeks to grind out a
project and a startup like those are the
ones you want to help out. Yeah. Shout
out to Mason who left ATX Dow recently
to with crypto. Yeah. I'll see him in
May. So, we headed up to DC there to
spend some time with him. I don't think
he's in DC, but uh they're doing an
event. Well, he ended up in New York to
to do a lot of like DC stuff. Well, he's
also just like traveling now, spreading
the good word of Stand with Crypto, um
which has been a phenomenal
organization. I got to fly out to DC in
December 23 to espouse the virtues of
pro crypto legislation and and
regulations and things like that. So, it
really felt like they were fighting the
good fight and we got to be a part of
democracy. Um, so yeah, also RIP to
consensus Austin. I was there the last
three years. Kind of bummed that we
won't be there this year, but um, say
LVI. So kind of like um, in that realm,
we've seen a lot of regulatory and
legislative headwinds pick up in the US.
I'm sure being a builder here in the
states that feels good to see an
administration talking about um you know
two different types of legislations
going through Congress right now for
stable coins and market structure bill
to see the SEC changing their outlook on
crypto and blockchains in general plus
like overturning of SAB 121 and and all
these like really great narratives but
at the same time like the theopium that
was going into the Trump presidency is
kind of being sunk like sucked out of
the room because of macro basically for
what's going on. So I guess maybe um
with that picture painted, what are some
of like the reasons for hope that you
have right now as a builder and a
founder in the US? And maybe what are
some other ways that we can temper our
expectations and prepare for some choppy
waters yet? Yeah. So, as we were just
talking about, right, like we've seen
ETH at $80. Like we've been around when
these cryptocurrencies for Bitcoin were
like $400 and people around the industry
have seen Bitcoin literally like below a
dollar. So, we know that it's a growing
industry regardless of who is in the
administration. And that's kind of the
whole point of crypto is every four
years we're going to get a new
president, but you're not going to be
able to change the code. You're not
going to be able to change some of the
laws or the structure that govern these
blockchains. And that is by design,
right? or if they are, you know,
centralized enough to change, then over
time they'll become more decentralized.
And so that is a growing trend
regardless of what law is in place,
whether it's SAP121, the upcoming stable
coin bills, or just, you know, Trump
launching a meme cocoin on Salana. Like
that is like all things that are useful
and will continue to help ease adoption
and uh traction and market share. But at
the end of the day, you're not waiting
on some government to go hit the green
light and say crypto is a go. Only the
builders in the ecosystem and the people
that are creating this technology are
the ones who can push utility and
actually make sure that people use
crypto every day because at the end of
the day crypto is freedom technology. It
is technology that allows us to operate
outside of the state because they cannot
control it. They cannot print Bitcoin.
They cannot print Ethereum or you know
again like spicy takes aside like you
know there there's there's problems that
we have to deal with as an industry but
the fundamental premise is we create
these blockchains so that they cannot be
tampered with. So, I think the the cause
for hope and the cause for a positive
outlook is that we've spent this time to
actually go and take a fundamental look
at what we're doing, right? And and
cycle downturns allow for building. They
allow for people to go and say, what
assumptions did we get wrong? Which ones
did we get right? You know, if we look
at things like pump fun, is that a
positive? Is that a negative? That's
some of the recent discourse that we've
seen. If you look at poly market as
well, like are different types of bets
good for that? Yes or no? And I mean I
remember you know again talking about
Texas blockchain talking about things
like the Nosis prediction markets and
and augur and and having those and
saying you know okay like our assassin
assassination market's going to be a
thing and then it took like five years
for that to actually sort of play out
when with the potential Trump
assassination and how that went and
factored into the the sort of election
there. So, I think all of these things
are being built on and the the hope is
that yes, like we want the ability to
build in the United States like we want
America because I'm bullish America, you
know, I love America based out of the
US. We want that to be a positive. I
don't want to have to go to Dubai,
right? I I think I would hate living in
Dubai. I'd much rather live in Austin.
And for that reason, like we want things
to get better because we want to keep
people here from from the perspective of
the fact that crypto I think has the
staying power. So we shouldn't sort of
isolate these people that are builders
and ultimately want to help capitalism
in that sense. So I think if you look
again like concretely like we talked a
bit about stable coins. Stable coins are
going to be a two trillion dollar
industry that's going to be driven by
institutional adoption and that's going
to continue to help with the
facilitation and sort of blurring the
lines between crypto and traditional
finance. So the stable coin legislation
genius act and the stable bills are
going to be really good for that. Again,
it just kind of depends on some of the
the minutiae of how you interpret the
bills, but all good things. Uh,
state-based legislation around strategic
Bitcoin reserves also good as well.
Texas leading the way there, Wyoming and
uh others. I believe Arizona is one of
those as well. So, all all positive
stuff there. And if we see those sort of
winds of change, I think it sets up a
pretty bullish landscape. It's just a
matter of, you know, if if we were to
have say, you know, different people
come in four years later because it can
change, right? You wouldn't want them to
come and say, "All right, well, now your
strategic Bitcoin bill is gone, and
we're going to confiscate the Bitcoin
and and the all the things that you were
hoping for in terms of the 15-year plan
for Bitcoin is out the window." So, I I
think we can't operate with uh
continually having favorable presence in
the administration. Yeah. So, for those
listening now or in the future, the
Standard Charter just came out with a
call that said that stable coins will be
a tr$2 trillion asset class by the end
of 2028. Um and and indeed we do have uh
Texas, all these different states you
just mentioned as well as the Feds
looking into a Bitcoin strategic
reserve. So again, all these like
headwinds, but in the short term, you
know, how do you as a a CEO of a company
um of a company that's building out a
blockchain ecosystem, how are you guys
kind of battering down the ship or or
preparing the house for a hurricane,
whatever you want to call it, for like
the short-term tumultuous kind of vibes
that we're still feeling um in the US
and around the world just as assets in
general are getting hammered. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean I think the name of the
game is survive, right? If you're an
entrepreneur, you're building a startup
in an industry that is a startup in and
of itself. And so I think everyone looks
at crypto and they're like, "Oh, it's
just degenerate gambling." But how do
you cut through all of that noise and
actually create signal that there's
utility here and there's reason? And so
you have to look back on the
fundamentals. You have to see, okay, why
was Bitcoin created? What is the point
of Bitcoin? What is the innovation of
Ethereum? Why is Ethereum not doing well
compared to Bitcoin? And these are like
real trade-offs in terms of users and
eyes and mind share and adoption. And
then you can also look at something like
Ripple and you could be like well Ripple
is basically flipping Ethereum and FDV
like every couple of weeks now. Like
what is causing Ripple to do that? And
and I won't say like there's good or bad
between an approach of Ethereum and
Ripple because Ethereum is way more
cippher punk and actually true to the
ideals of what cryptocurrency is meant
to do compared to something like Ripple.
But at the end of the day like again
they're leveraging uh some of the
benefits of the winds that you're
talking about to to go and uh capture
market share there. So I think as an
industry and as a as a you know
entrepreneur in the space we have to
look and say like how do we want to
market ourselves? How do we want to go
and actually uh you know help people
understand what crypto is. I think a lot
of it goes back to education and so
onboarding people onboarding those next
you know people that and and not when
people in crypto like to say you know
the next billion users. It's like, well,
we're not going to get to a billion if
we don't get at least like some people
using these chains, like understanding
like why they should be operating on a
blockchain and and I think we have the
the base of people that are, you know,
willing to go take it up and and market
and help people actually, you know, use
crypto every day. So, from our side, uh,
yeah, it's definitely just helping
people see that vision and see how we
can actually use crypto and and make the
most use of it in our daily lives. So,
the Genius Act is basically Senate's uh
stable coin bill and the stable act is
basically the House of Representatives
stable coin bill and both of them are
kind of moving through Congress on their
own. How much are you paying attention
to this right now? Um, is this something
that you're keeping an eye on daily or
you're just waiting to see when we
finally get some sort of stable genius
conglomeration bill put together? um
what's like the level of attention that
this takes from you and your team right
now as you pay attention to kind of like
these larger scale political regulatory
um headwinds. Yeah, I mean if you look
at those two bills in particular, right,
they're addressing something that has
historically been under a lot of
scrutiny. So Tether itself has been sort
of uh looked at under a microscope
because of its sort of prior concerns
with reserves and how it's treated
globally as well as sanctions and it
getting delisted in places like Europe
because of Micah. And then Circle has
now sort of emerged with USDC as was one
of the more compliant forms of stable
coins. And so you know between USDT and
USDC they're about 88% of the market
share. That's some of the largest stable
coins by adoption. They also do the most
flows. So I think daily volume of of
each of those is north of 400 I want to
say $400 billion and USDC itself is
surpassing ETH in terms of volume on the
Ethereum chain like which again I don't
know how good that is. So from a
regulatory perspective, like I don't
necessarily track it every, you know,
step that it goes through and who's
signing off on what, but I I will see,
you know, the the large updates and see
that there is this pressure of stable
coins because it does actually reinforce
the dollar. And if you look at the
trade-off between the dollar and crypto,
you have to recognize again that crypto
in some sense was meant to disrupt the
dollar. And so are we going to dollarize
our blockchains? are we going to give
people that use the dollar every day
means of using crypto things like
Bitcoin, Ethereum more natively and and
sort of uh give them the tools again to
tap into that censorship resistance,
self- sovereignty and more of those
cipher punk ideals. So stable coins
could either be a Trojan horse for tradi
into blockchain or they can act sort of
as reverse in which we're actually uh
bringing more crypto structure into
tradi which again that's sort of the
balance and blend that we're at. The
some of the concerns that I saw uh you
know very loosely between each of the
bills is that they might limit who can
actually go and create stable coins. So
are we isolating that to US companies
which again if you're trying to export
the dollar may not necessarily be a good
thing because right now uh stable coins
are the 16th largest holder of US
treasuries. So they're creating demand
for the dollar and if we were only able
to say that companies in the US can
create that demand. Well, you're you're
limiting that global adoption of the
dollar, which again, as someone that is
bullish on the US, well, that's negative
because you'd want people all across the
globe to get access to US treasuries.
So, I think those are the questions that
are going to get ironed out and those
are the things that are again sort of uh
outside of my area of expertise. I
prefer to create, you know, different
structures and systems that would allow
for again more cipher punk ideals. And
for us, we're focusing on different
forms of stability, different types of
access for stability on a blockchain and
and how that's utilized with what we're
doing with the energy dollar andqi. So
having something that's completely
isolated from fiat in that sense. Cool.
And so I guess you you did mention the
BSR earlier. Um I'm just curious from
both like a statewide adoption, there's
50 states potentially 50 different BSRS
as well as a national scale Bitcoin
strategic reserve. How does how do these
BSRS create more opportunities for
stable coins? Yeah, I mean if you look
at BSRS, so I think the state-by-st
state approach is the preferred one
because then you actually get a little
bit more competition. You can try to
experiment on the state level which
one's best. Are you doing outright
buying with tax dollars? Are you doing
more of a donation based approach? Are
you doing something where you're sort of
taking some of your uh outside revenue
and converting that into Bitcoin or
other types of cryptocurrency? And I
think the sort of ominous like delta
neutral or budget neutral buying from
the US side is like not something that
in the short term I think has like
appeased anybody because again they're
like well where are these delt these
budget neutral buys that we're talking
about and uh you know right now so so to
go back to your question of like kind of
what that does for stable coins. I I
think again that's getting people
familiar with the idea of crypto because
they're going to say well if my state is
accepting Bitcoin if they're holding
Bitcoin well that make might make it
more comfortable for us to go use you
know a stable coin for purchasing or
might have a better mechanism of getting
yield on stable coins in a certain bank
account or in a certain type of account
that I'm familiar with and so that type
of access I think is beneficial and I
think if you can help legislate you know
some of the more uh structured products
in terms of a Bitcoin reserve, then
they're going to be able to also help
quickly get things like stable coins to
consumers. And then you might also see
state-by-state stable coins, right?
We're in the great state of Texas here,
and so maybe we'll have some sort of
oilbacked stable coin that's created out
of tax out of Texas with Texas oil. So,
so those types of things I think could
be positive and allow for different
types of experimentation there. Yeah.
And so maybe this is an unfair question,
but just because you're building in the
stable coin space, um maybe you rub
elbows with other stable coin projects,
but uh you did mention that um Tether
and Circle and kind of like the
conglomerate of these fiat backstable
coins are the largest 16th largest
purchasers of US debt instruments. So
does that impact the way that the US
government kind of recognizes these
entities as valuable partners? because
now we're starting to talk about um like
sovereign state level purchases of US
debt instruments. So from your
perspective, in your opinion, working on
a full-time stable coin project in the
blockchain space, do you believe that
this is showing the US government is
starting to take the stable coin
industry seriously because they are
buying more debt instruments than the
majority of countries out there? Yeah, I
mean you kind of have to, right? like
these these are people that are going to
directly influence the next generation
of payments and commerce. And so when
you look at things like World Liberty
Financial, well, Justin Sun is an
investor in that. And so they're going
and they're facilitating also the new
launch of a stable coin there. So
they're making their own form to go
compete with USDC and USDT. So that type
of influence is real. And I think when
you look at just the people that are
playing this game that they're they're
very interested in finding ways to
ensure the long-term success of the
dollar and then also how to make these
stable coins real and practical for
everyday Americans and people across the
globe because that is the cheapest way
to send money. You know, it's still, you
know, pretty expensive if you look at
transacting on some of these
blockchains. A stable coin transfer on
Ethereum can still be 12 bucks if you're
sending USDC. And then on systems like
Tron, speaking of Justin Sun, can still
be, you know, three to five bucks. So,
how do we solve those challenges if
we're still actually trying to compete
with stable coins against systems like
Visa and Mastercard? I don't think we've
cracked that nut yet, which again goes
back to something that is closer to what
we're solving. But again, I think the
the questions are there of how do we
make these systems seamless, easy to
use, and I think that over time, the US
government will try to find ways to sort
of crack down down on this. And I do
think, you know, we're positioned better
than a system like China with CBDC's or
sort of, you know, flashback 3 to 5
years ago whenever the concern around
stable coins actually was more around
CBDC's. So, are we going to have limits
and and are we going to be censored? If
I'm speaking negatively about a
politician, are they going to ban my
account or my wallet? are they going to
flag me? So, I do think there is a
little bit more opportunity there in the
stable coin space if we do have the
commoditized approach with stable coins
and different issuers that I choose to
use and then also some of the pro
benefits in terms of the legislation
that we talked about earlier when you
look at things like tornado cash now
getting taken off OFAC sanctions list
like that's huge and so factoring that
into like what they're trying to do I
think their intentions are positive I do
think there are negatives sort of in the
step-by-step approach and I think all of
it will be worked out but yeah
ultimately it is going to be something
that does promote dollar dominance and
then also the export of the dollar with
the growth of stable coins. Yeah. So,
stable coins are are crypto's killer use
case. I mean, if you go back the past
two, maybe even three years, the the
number one transaction that's happened
on chain has usually involved a stable
coin of some sort. And the even dirtier
secret was 2022, 2023, maybe even 2024.
A lot of this activity was happening on
Tron. Though Tron is seeing kind of
historic fees right now, so it is
becoming more and more expensive. But as
we talk about stable coins as as an
industry, if you go on to like
RWA.xyz's dashboard, you can probably
see 40 different issuers, but the
overwhelming majority are Tether and
then Circle. So, do you think that
Tether is
um is apt to lose its market position
because its number one kind of like
competitor right now is USDC? And as we
can see in uh the filings that they put
for their um IPO, they're not
necessarily a super super profitable
company and maybe even like not that
sexy for a a traditional investor to get
into. So maybe this is me like lobbing
you a softball. Is there an opportunity
right now to get into the stable coin
market to compete to take market share
away from Tether? Is Circle like the
secondary incumbent that is guaranteed
to to be number two? What are the the
opportunities that are available right
now for stable coin creators in this
space? Yeah, I think if the future of
blockchain and crypto is stable coins,
we've ultimately failed, right? Like we
we've uh we've gone and created all
these systems and we've we've done this
coordination of people to go and just
create tradi. So ultimately, yeah,
Tether needs to be disrupted. USDC needs
to be disrupted and the dollar needs to
be disrupted. And what we're doing with
Quai and how we've built the energy
dollar is that exact approach. We've
created a system that has low fees, can
scale 50,000 plus transactions per
second. And then you can again get that
Visa Mastercard like experience with
something that is not tied to a dollar.
It's tied to energy and and that is done
through proof of work mining. So
creating a medium of exchange in a new
form of medium of exchange with
something that actually looks like cash
with a unit of account. So a basis in
energy which in our opinion and from
what we've seen in different types of
monetary designs is actually a better
source of stability from an econ an
economy and from a commerce standpoint.
And we've sort of looked at how we've
always had monetary systems tied around
energy because we started with gold,
silver, you know, we had physical goods
that we based, whether they were sea
shells or sort of, you know, all sorts
of different types of mechanisms, you
know, going all the way back to stones
on an island, I think, is like the
classic example when people talk about
monetary systems in that way with
Bitcoin. And so, you know, the Brett and
Woods was sort of that main sort of
agreement that established the US as the
hegemonic power that allowed us to
export the dollar and then we ultimately
took everyone off the gold standard
whenever we said we're just going to
have fiat now. So, now we live in this
world of fiat and the US dollar has sort
of been that primary driver of growth
and we're starting to see some cracks in
that. And if we say we're going to
reinforce that with stable coins and our
blockchain systems are purely going to
be facilitating US dollars, well, that's
taking away a lot of the benefit of
these sort of again key breakthroughs of
creating monetary systems and designs.
And so you say blockchain's number one
killer use case is stable coins. I
disagree. I think the killer use case is
money. And if we can actually find a way
to make a better monetary system, then I
think we will find ways to again align
humanity towards a more prosperous
future and create something that even
Satoshi Nakamoto said whenever he's
creating Bitcoin could change people
from fighting wars to accomplish power
to instead use economic power and use
energy and use sources of soft force to
achieve peace that way. And so from my
eyes, I think that's sort of the key
breakthrough there with blockchain. With
Quai, we're trying to build a new
monetary system around energy that
allows us to actually fulfill some of
that vision. And stable coins, yes, are
part of that in the short term. I think
they're more of an off-ramp into this
future in which you have different
monetary systems sort of competing
outside of the state. And yeah, I think
ultimately that would be like the
libertarian sort of focus of where
things are headed. And it's going to
take a while to get there. you know,
even with Bitcoin at like 85K now and a
peak of 106, like that's still like
light years away from like where we
were, but I I still think there's a long
way to go. And ultimately, we still want
to see a rising tide lift all boats, and
we want crypto to succeed as a whole.
So, I think it's a enough grave dancing
even on systems like Ethereum, even if
it's been down only since Bitcoin, since
the merge. Uh, but I I think there's a
there's a ton of room for
experimentation. Yes, stable coins will
be useful, but at the end of the day,
there's got to be more. I appreciate the
positive outlook. I generally get
concerned when I think of Bitcoin as the
the global monetary standard that we've
devolved into some really kind of
dystopian world where all fiat
currencies are wiped away and we're
dealing in commodities of Bitcoin,
beans, and bullets to to survive and
really have value. So, I appreciate the
the the reason for hope there. I also
want to take like a step sideways so we
can really slingshot us forward as we're
talking about um adopting
cryptocurrencies and stable coins more
broadly across different networks and as
you're mentioning you have this thesis
for why a powerbacked network is a
really solid kind of like economic model
to be based off of. We're still kind of
in this weird position where ETH is down
only, but of the 227 billion dollars of
stable coins, 127 billion live on ETH.
Um, 67 billion live on Tron. The
overwhelming majority live on these
proofofstake networks. So, what gives?
Why are stable coins on Ethereum? Why
are they on Tron? Why are people dunking
on Ethereum when there's this really
like major use case of RWA activity on
it? Um, and then kind of like using
that, maybe we can slingshot into the
work that you're doing and maybe we
could even talk about the stable coin
report that you released recently
overviewing the five categories of
totally your stable coins. So, I mean, I
think, you know, as someone that's loved
Ethereum since the beginning, right?
like it it's definitely the platform
with you know it did have the most
builders and I still think it as you
said it does have the most stablecoin
activity and the most RWA activity and
that is because it has accomplished its
goal of being a decentralized credibly
neutral layer and and that is again been
the key thesis of crypto and so the put
again like put aside the ultrasound
money narrative put aside you know a lot
of the fix the money fix the world put
aside uh you know a lot of the world
computer narratives I I think if we were
to solve. If we were to optimize for
speed, you'd eventually again end up in
web 2. And so in crypto, you first have
to optimize for decentralization. And
you have to do it as soon as you can, as
early as possible, or else most of that
will trend towards centralization. And
if you do trend towards centralization,
you always end up with the question, why
not just use a database? Like why don't
you just put all of these people just on
one AWS server? And I think Ethereum
right now has accomplished its goal. And
it's starting to get to the point of
oification in which it is hard to
coordinate upgrades. It is hard to
coordinate scaling the L1 and scaling
the base layer. So they have had to push
off to layer twos and that is by design.
Although if you look at using Ethereum L
the L1 as that source of sort of
liquidity and decentralization, if you
ask any institutional fund, right, look
at Black Rockck with the build fund,
they're going to want to put the bulk of
their money on Ethereum because they
know that is where it's going to be the
most economically sound. And so for me,
I I think that is where you look at some
of that TVL, the DeFi activity. Having
that as sort of the the piggy bank there
for people to use Ethereum in that way
and as a hub, I I think is going to help
sort of with that long-term use case.
I'm not a a macro expert. I'm not a
trader. I'm a builder. And uh it's
unfortunate to see sort of what's
happened with Ethereum's price action in
that regard. But I think that if you
were to sort of look at the long-term
outlook, that is in my opinion way more
valuable to have that hub and have that
source there for people to tap into than
all the fragmentation on the end where
experimentation occurs. Would you say
that um like stable coins living on
Ethereum and surviving and and Ethereum
as a network, I'm not even talking about
as an asset. um like surviving and
actually becoming a stronger network in
the future and more adopted by these
institutions. Is that a tide that lifts
all boats? Does Kai get to benefit from
Ethereum's success of institutions
onboarding into that
ecosystem? I would say, you know, that's
a that's a tricky question. I would say
yes. Obviously, like we want Ethereum,
the network to do well and we want
people to find ways to put more
liquidity into blockchain systems with
stable coins. Although I think if that
remains isolated, it wouldn't benefit
us, right? If it's just all activity
occurring on Ethereum, of course, Qui
wouldn't benefit in the same way that
Bitcoin wouldn't benefit. And so from
that regard, it would be, you know, how
do you leverage the bridges, the
connections, the ability for people to
go and move funds in a permissionless
manner that would allow that to occur?
Because you know from our side the last
thing that I would want to see Ethereum
end up being is purely just a a KYC
layer in which you have to KYC to use
the network and there's a trusted source
of node runners and there are certain
requirements that it takes and that
people kind of at the end of the day end
up again looking like web 2 and try.
Yeah. So I'll just go ahead and um kind
of like paint what I see. A lot of these
stable coins are landing on Ethereum
right now. A lot of RWAs are landing on
Ethereum because it's the oldest battle
tested blockchain network with no
downtime. And this is the first thing
outside of Bitcoin that these large
scale players are playing with and as
they continue to progress through the
industry and progress through the tech
stack and using blockchain then they
will start exploring other blockchain
networks. So enter Kai. What is the kind
of value prop that Quai is bringing? And
why did you and your team opt to go for
a powerbacked sort of narrative, a
powerbacked um stable coin? And maybe
you can also kind of like go through the
stable coin report that was recently
released that had kind of like five
categories. I I want to say of stable
coins, but this kind of looks like five
categories of like what is the thesis
behindQI. So let's like kind of like go
there. The after Ethereum, these Tradfi
guys, these large scale institutions are
looking at building on other networks.
How is Ki positioning itself to gain
market share forQi?
Yeah, absolutely. And so like I said
earlier, if we continue to go down the
route of stable coins that we're
currently on, then we will likely create
the Achilles heel of crypto. And so
something that can be censored,
something that can be controlled,
something that is centrally issued. And
of course, the commoditization of stable
coins helps because you can sort of pick
and choose. But ultimately, a blockchain
doesn't understand what a stable coin
is. It doesn't understand what a dollar
is because there is no way for a
computer to understand fundamentally
from a physics perspective what that
means. There is just no physical tie.
And so when you talk about sort of a
network that's powered by energy or
powered by sort of electricity and
something that can tap into that source
of physical stability that real world
tie, we're actually creating a token
that's not necessarily a stable coin but
is actually closer to a low volatility
coin because it emits the rewards
proportionally to hash rate since Qui is
a proofof work network. And again,
there's differences between proof of
work, proof and stake. We won't get into
too much of the nuance because most
people prefer proof of stake if you're,
you know, aligned with Ethereum and that
totally makes sense. But the the key
kind of breakthrough is that we've
actually found a meaningful use of proof
of work and we found a way in which that
we're not just wasting the energy. We're
making some economic use of it outside
of say for Bitcoin the emissions of
Bitcoin with the year or the every
four-year havingss make no use of the
energy that it uses. it just uses it
primarily for economic finality and
security versus the actual uh economics
of the network and the token economics.
So what we're doing with chi in this way
is we can say well how do we create this
new form of stable coin stable coin
adjacent flatcoin and tie it to energy
such that we can have this cryptonative
form that actually looks like cash
because we can see that if you were to
say have a bunch of bitcoin and ethereum
most oftentimes you don't want to spend
it you'd rather hoard it and you would
say well why am I going to spend my
bitcoin if I'm going to go buy a cup of
coffee whenever it could be worth you
you know, three times it amount in the
future. And so for for that, you'd say,
I'd rather spend my dirty fiat that I
earned. And so if you go and say, well,
well, what if we created a crypto system
that actually looked like cash and that
had some relative sort of source of
stability against the uh world in which
we know it, energy is actually good
proxy for that. And energy prices have
actually remained pretty steady, you
know, the past 25 years if you compare
it against the the Canadian dollar, the
US dollar, the euro, the yen, and
others. And and if you look at sort of
the forex markets in that way, energy is
a good source of that. And our supply
chain is also dictated by energy because
if oil prices go up, well, oftentimes
the price of goods go up and groceries
go up and and others. And so, of course,
it's not one specific energy source. So,
oil or hydroelectric or solar or nuclear
or others. It's a blend because proofof
work mining is the process of finding
that lowest energy source in terms of
pricing and exploiting that to mine
cryptocurrency. And so if you look at
that same incentive with Bitcoin miners,
they'll go off into the middle of West
Texas, they'll mine Bitcoin and that
Bitcoin is sort of isolated in terms of
mining from say downtown Austin. And so
when that occurs, well then they have
Bitcoin and they can send it anywhere
across the globe and that's separate in
terms of the connectivity against the
grid. And so that's a process that
encourages not only the lowest cost of
energy, but it also encourages renewable
forms of energy because most often those
are actually the ones that are cheapest
to use. And so for Quai, again, tying
that back to the stable coins there,
we'd see, well, how can we actually go
and uh remove this Achilles heel for
crypto? How can we go and again bring
back these cipher punk ideas and see
ways in which we can create monetary
systems that can leverage the
decentralization of crypto, leverage
censorship resistance, leverage
sovereignty, self-custody and ways in
which we can actually transact with it.
So from our side, it would be how do we
keep these fees low so that I can
actually go spend it without worrying
about that same fee that we talked about
earlier. How can we make people adopt
it? So what do we actually need to do to
make merchants adopt it? what sort of
you know systems and what sort of uh
processes do we need in place what ways
do we actually enable people to create
these wallets you know and that's one of
the beautiful things about crypto as
well is I don't need three months of
income to go and set up a crypto wallet
I just get an internet connection and I
create it or even sometimes a satellite
connection like it should be that easy
and so those are all the questions that
we're asking in this journey of actually
creating quai creatingqi building this
blockchain going down this entire rabbit
hole of what it takes and uh It's been a
It's been a beautiful thing to learn and
and sort of get to this point of where
it's at today. So, I hope I'm not
throwing a fastball too much, but I'm
just gonna play devil's advocate and
let's do it. Um, so you go on to like uh
gaming subreddits and these guys hate
crypto. They hate blockchain because
it's destroying the planet. That is
directly tied to the proofof work
narrative. So, are you giving your
marketing team a doubly hard challenge
by going out there and and espousing the
benefits of of what Kawaii and Chi are?
Oh, they do hate it. Gamers hate
roofwork mining. I mean, you know, in
the same way that people driving to
their bank to go deposit a check are are
burning all sorts of fossil fuels. Uh,
and the people sitting in the bank and
the traditional finance sector are all
causing all this. uh in comparison, you
know, crypto is such a small blip on the
radar and and they've said for Bitcoin
in specific, you know, it was going to
burn all the ice caps by 2025. That was
one of the key reasons Ethereum actually
shifted to proof of stake as they had
concerns with proof of work mining. And
all of those fears have just been vastly
overstated. And if anything, what we're
seeing is that proof work mining is
actually carbon negative due to the fact
that you can go and do things like
trapped landfill gas mitigation, tarping
CO2 that's emitted or methane off of
methane that's emitted off of landfills
and then piping that into a generator
and making that into CO2 and making it
anywhere between 75 to 80% less potent
to the atmosphere than if it was
methane. And so things like that, uh,
the flare off of oil wells as well is
one of those things that helps with
carbon negative sources for mining and
and uh, energy capture. And as I shared,
the cheapest sources of energy are
actually the renewable ones. If you have
a a dam out in the middle of Alberta,
Canada, and it's generating much of
hydroelectric, but there's not a city
near it to actually go and capture the
electricity, well, you're going to mine
crypto. So the incentive is there and I
don't think it would it's the equivalent
as uh you know lighting a bunch of trees
on fire to go and and mine crypto. It's
done in a very resourceful way and it
has to be because it's a competitive
game and the economics and the margins
are just you know way too small for any
mistake. And so you actually see that in
response with Bitcoin prices and hash
rate. And you see that even on Quai
we're a small network but if the price
goes up the hash rate goes up. price go
down, price goes down, the hash rate
goes down. And these people are very
sophisticated. And so no one anywhere is
just going to be lighting money on fire.
They're going to make very rational
choices around that energy spend. And
that rational choice is because of how
efficient it is in that sense. Yeah. I
mean, Colorado has a lot of fracking
that goes on here. So, we're starting to
see companies cap these ex natural gas
extraction sites so that they can
capture methane and indeed use that to
power a GPU for mining. Um when you look
at like and the energy grid like Bitcoin
miners have worked in a symbiotic
relationship. During times of um peak
power the miners will reduce their
consumption and during times of
underused power the miners will step in
and use that electricity. because a lot
of folks don't realize that at the
source where energy is created as it
travels further away on the the wire
network we lose that electricity and
that energy. So there is a valuable
service that proofof work miners are
providing. Um it's just it's a really
hard narrative to get over. It's kind of
like when you're having a conversation
with someone who is very um one-sided in
terms of their political beliefs. It's
not a conversation. It's just two sides
yelling at each other and there's no
getting through to the other to the
other person's mind. So, I just like am
curious if you guys are running into
this issue with this kind of like
negative overarching
um narrative. Yeah, of course. I mean,
you see that, right? And as I said, it
it's it's uh it's overblown. It's
overstated. If I had to, you know, say
one thing to those people, it'd be if
you uh if you made a Studio Giblly image
with chat GPT, you shouldn't have any
problems with proof of work. So, if
you're on that trend, you you don't get
to talk about it. Oh, I made so many of
those images, but I also never I never
complain. Um I I know full well that I'm
a hypocrite. Um so, I want to know a
little bit more about the relationship
between the Quai token and the Chi
token. Why did you guys adopt a dual
token model? Um, I've been in an
ecosystem for a long time that has a
dual token model, so I can see the
benefits. Why why did you choose to
deploy this in the 2024 2025?
Great question. So, the again I I'll
reframe the conversation around just
some of the principles that we talked
about earlier. And so creating a
monetary system and having something
that can actually go compete with a kind
of all-in-one use of money there is sort
of the key breakthrough of crypto. And
we've seen Bitcoin really accomplish the
store value side. So what are the three
things that exist in a monetary system?
Well, you need a store of value, you
need a medium of exchange, and you need
a unit of account. And so right now, if
you were to sort of be a day-to-day user
of crypto, you'd store your value in
Bitcoin. And then you would use the cash
and and fiat as your medium of exchange.
And your unit of account would sort of
be the Fed and and the government kind
of telling you what this value is. And
so from our side, we've said, well, how
do we actually put this all into a
blockchain so that you have these
properties? And so you you're able to
accomplish that with two tokens. And two
tokens are useful because it actually
applies some to Gresham's law in which
Gresham's law states that bad money
drives good money out of circulation.
And so good money being something that
you want to hoard and bad money being
something that you actually want to
spend, get rid of. Again, dirty fiat
like I talked about. One of the reasons
why the Roman Empire collapsed is
because their gold was getting devalued,
defaced. And so bad coins were put into
circulation. And so all of that is, you
know, from our side, how do you create
bad money in these systems? bad money in
these systems today are stable coins.
But again, we already just talked about
all of those problems with stable coins.
And so the way in which we've
accomplished those three key properties
is we have quai as that store of value
like asset. We haveqi as a medium of
exchange that you could spend that has
cash-like privacy and a way in which
that is a transferable very easily with
low fees. And then that unit of account
in the system is energy. And so having
that energy as a basis of pricing and
having that as a mechanism of tying it
to goods and services that you use in
day-to-day life. And so we sort of taken
these three sort of properties, put them
all into one network and have launched
that and and we've spent many years, you
know, it's been seven years in the
making to sort of get all those pieces
together and a lot of research and
design around those principles and what
it means to actually accomplish that
with a blockchain. But from our side,
that is the approach of why we need
those two tokens and how they're spent.
And of course, those are transferable
across each other. Uh they're both mined
as well. So you can mine either qui
orqi. The mining of quai and chi as
block rewards is what creates that
shelling point that helps tie that price
ofqi to energy. And again, chi is not
perfectly stable. It's not like $1. If
you look at other algorithmic coins or
coins in which that attempt to create
the source of stability, what they do is
they actually price it to a dollar. And
again that runs into problems because I
as I said blockchains can't understand
what a dollar is. But a blockchain that
is proof of work natively does
understand what energy is through the
innovation of the difficulty controller.
So from our side that's like the the
physics defined first principles
approach of why you need to. So you said
that chi isn't a stable coin it's a low
volatility coin. So what's the
relationship? How what is there like a
particular algorithm that states um
you're going to reduce the kind of
changes in energy consumption and that
is going to be overlaid on chi and then
the excess is going to go into the
volatility of the quai token. Yep. And
so that mechanism is the difficulty
controller, the hash rate. So every time
you give the network one hash, it gives
you oneqi and you can make that decision
if if you want qui orqi. And that design
is again is what putsqi into the
marketplace or into the market at the
price of hash. Because ifq chi is not
demand, if there's no demand for chi,
then people will mine quai. And so with
that, every time chi is mined, it is
mined at the price of hash. And there is
a conversion between quai or chi with an
economic controller that sort of looks
at that sort of backward-looking history
of quai and chi conversions and what it
means for difficulty. And then again
depending on the preference for both. So
now you can imagine in a scenario if you
look at sort of demand for qui going
down well then the hash rate will go
down. So you sort of get this valve of
hash rate sort of being that proxy to
real world value. So a couple weeks ago
um block works held digital asset summit
in New York and Meltum Deir gave a talk
and she uh I feel like over the years
she's kind of become well known for
being a bit of a cynic. Um and in her
cynical talk about how we have a bunch
of interlopers coming into the
blockchain space and and not real
visionaries um she kind of the
underlying message was that proof of
work is the killer use case for
blockchain networks. So we saw over the
past like five years this narrative that
proof of work is killing the earth.
Proof of stake is super sexy. But I'm
curious um is proof of work coming back?
Like is it bringing sexy back? I think
so, but not for the reasons that Meltum
talked about. She was really critical of
Ethereum for again kind of that topic I
brought up earlier of the the merge and
why they shifted to proof of stake. And
I think if you look at that shift, you
know, it's not something that actually
was natively around her principles of
making it say like slower per se or like
the the shift of making uh Ethereum
worse in any way as an asset. Uh I I I
think that proof of work has very
different principles and and different
design approaches around it. And I I do
think from what we're doing, proof of
work is coming back. We we've really
thought about it from a sense of why
should a blockchain be proof of work?
And if it is, how do you actually make
it useful in that way? You know, you
shouldn't just make it proof of work
because you think it's it's better from
an ide ideological perspective. It's
because you can make real trade-offs
that make the system easier to use or
again have a better user experience. And
so the reason why we've looked at proof
of work is because we've actually found
it to be more scalable than proof of
stake. And and some of the examples of
this is again more technical, but if you
look at proof of stake, you actually
have to use the bandwidth in the network
for voting. And it's multi-round
consensus. I have to ask you what your
vote was on the block. You have to ask
me what my vote was on the block. And
there's a real overhead that goes across
the wire whenever you make that sort of
communication. In proof of work, you
just use your hash rate that is
completely outside of the network
bandwidth and that sort of dictates your
vote. In Qui, we've actually made that
process faster as well because we use
something called poem or proof of entry
minima which allows for single round
consensus. So you only have to broadcast
the block. You don't have to broadcast
the block and then see which block is
chosen based off of the next block
that's built like traditional Nakamoto
consensus has done. But those types of
questions, you really have to go down
the rabbit hole and you can't just say
energy is the reason. You can't just
say, you know, compute is good and we
and we want crypto to succeed. So
compute and energy and all these things
are going to be the thing that helps
crypto become this killer use case. We
have to again go back to those
principles of well what are those things
that allow us to accomplish these goals
and energy is one of those things that
helped us design chi because now again
we have that unit of account and proof
of work is something that's actually
helped us scale the blockchain more so
than having it be proof of stake. And so
those properties are something that
we've sort of leveraged in a sense to
have this proofof work renaissance. And
there's a lot of other things in quai
that are sort of renaissance-esque that
we've improved. And and I could talk
about it all day, but I think uh
Meltum's on to something. And from what
I recall from her post, I I had a few
objections to it. And I think that again
it shouldn't be from the sense of being
critical of Ethereum. It should be more
so if you're going to compete with
Ethereum, you have to make a better
system. And you can just you can do that
with or without proof of work. We've
just chosen to do it with proof of work.
And so maybe this this next question I
have kind of ties into using POE as
opposed to Nakamoto consensus. But when
you look at like Cardano, Cardano can't
run DeFi on the chain. It needs to use
some sort of centralized sequencer
because of the UTXO based model issue
and essentially the chain just cannot
operate fast enough with the UTXOs to
perform DeFi operations. So maybe this
is leading you into a question for how
poem like abstracts away the issues with
UTXO for DeFi. Um how have you kind of
addressed like the old school UTXO
chains and implemented these these
changes and solutions into Quai? Great
question and this actually goes back to
the dual token that we talked about
earlier with Quai and Chi. So Quai is
actually EVM compatible. And so if
you're using the Qui token, you will use
the Qui token as gas to do EVM
compatible interactions. And so with
that, you can go do borrow lend, you can
do DeFi, you can do NFTs, you can do
gaming, you name it. And that's all
great. But the problem with the EVM is
it's not private. So there is no really
good mechanism for using the EVM every
day. if you want to go and accept
currency, you want to spend it or you
want to actually kind of use it as a a
system that can be used for payments and
pay in uh PayFi in the sense, right?
That that's sort of the title of that
report. And so from that side, uh you
know, we've seen people try to use that
for USDC, but again, it's all public. On
the UTXO side, when we look at sort of
uh theqi ledger, theqi ledger being UTXO
based uses fixed denominations and so it
actually has these sort of almost
nonfgeable types of denominations that
can't be broken up. So like ones, fives,
tens, 25s, and so it's spent like dollar
bills and it's it's used like dollar
bills. And then there's sort of the
ability to do reagregation and other
nice properties that actually makeQi
look like cash. So when we sayqi is the
first cryptonative cash, we actually
mean that from both the source of
stability with energy and actually
spending it to make it look like cash.
And so there's other nice properties in
that as well. Uh but but for us, you
know, when you look at something like
Cardano, Cardano being proof of stake
and using Orura Boros doesn't
necessarily limit it in terms of its
design for transactions because I
remember the meme being UNOS swap
whenever they had a swap on Cardano that
uh limited it to one transaction per
block if they wanted to to transact the
tokens there. And so that's not
necessarily a constraint of that uh
proof ofstake that poem fixes. It's a
matter of how do you actually get a VM
to run and I I think those are two
separate things. Although with POM, if
we were to say compare it to Cardano and
compare it to other proof ofstake
systems, the really beautiful thing
about POM and having it utilize proof of
work is that it breaks off that
financial tie to the traditional finance
system. You only need energy to go and
run a node with some internet, right? Or
eventually even satellite as I talked
about before. And so from that side, you
don't need to go buy ADA from someone or
ETH from someone and you don't have to
try to do this exchange or have it
gifted to you or or in some ways you can
just go and run a node and that's a
really powerful feature of Poem. Cool.
So I guess uh zooming out wrapping up um
you mentioned that Kai is is EVM
compatible. Uh you also mentioned
earlier that you're you you know you
have to go out and talk to businesses to
adoptqi. So what's the go to market
strategy? How how do you get both EVM
devs and also institutions and mom and
pop shops using Chi? Yeah. And so one
one of the things that we want to focus
on as I said with with
uhQi is the viral scheme of payments and
having this way of which people actually
can go and force it to get adopted and
and help the sort of grassroots effort
there. And I remember there was actually
a big push back in like 2017, 2018
around that time where you'd actually
see places accept Bitcoin and there's
Bitcoin ATMs and there's all these ways
that made it feel more real to use
crypto. Like if you're walking into a
convenience store and you see a Bitcoin
ATM, well that might be useful. And so
to me, that could be one of those
mechanisms that I see withQI and having
that be adopted places that have the
natural incentive to go and do it and
sort of help us grow the community in an
organic way in which, you know, at some
point, you know, it's going to be out of
our hands to control. the all all the
stuff we build is open source. We're
open source first and we want that
community to sort of grow virally just
without so much of our control. So there
are some things that we're doing. Blit
Pay is one of those which is like a
Venmo like experience that's on mobile
that will have means of using Quai and
Chi and then on top of that building
things like Shopify integrations and you
know wallet integrations into different
types of DAPs that will all be useful
and then of course helping businesses
and people understand what it is. So
revolving around education and having
that become more commonplace. Cool. So
beyond Blip Pay and and kind of like
education, what's next for Qui? What's
what's on the road map? Um what's like
the killer thing coming up in the next
quarter or two? Yeah, so we are
currently running a campaign. We're
doing the Quai spring. We're uh we
launched a calendar on X the other day
and it it has all of these exciting
announcements and updates for what
Kawaii is doing. So we're actually
working on decentralized mining pools
right now. So if you look at the proof
of workspace, you look at things like
stratum v2. We have a few different
concepts in quai, one of which is called
workshares and then we're extending that
to decentralized mining pools in which
anyone can sort of plug in their GPU and
access that and then eventually make
that a relay layer and a communication
layer. So anyone can plug into a pool
anywhere and get work done that way. And
then beyond that, we have a few other
key launches around ecosystem partners
and projects that have more on the way
to come. Growing the ecosystem is going
to be huge as well. As I shared before
with that EVM, we have people tapped in
and developers. So, always focused on
builder grants, getting people the
ability to come into the ecosystem and
contribute their time and their mind
share. We have uh more stuff to do on
that front. We have a unique DeFi
concept called liquid mining tokens in
which miners can take their rewards
under lock for additional yield in the
system and that is going to be tokenized
and then become freely tradable against
that future reward which is super
interesting. And then oh man uh
community is huge like X spaces and
broadcasts like this just getting the
word out there pounding the pavement and
telling the story that the spaces become
incredibly noisy. So, anything for
signal and and cutting through there so
that people can hear about what we're
doing is going to be key. Awesome. Well,
I think uh Quai is poised to take
advantage of the broader zeitgeist with
in terms of focus on stable coins and
and kind of like this new narrative of
going back to proof of work, especially
as institutions start looking more
seriously and groing with what Bitcoin
is. So, I I love the Quai story. I think
it's going to be really exciting for
people to listen to this episode. If
anyone listened to this and wants to
reach out to you, who do you want to
speak to and what's the best way they
can contact you? Yeah, so my handle on X
is oxalen K. My DMs are always open.
Glad to chat with people that have
questions. The Quai account is
quetai network on on Twitter. X Discord,
I'm always available there as well. So
if you jump in the Quai Discord, I think
the link is
discord.gg. And so I'm pretty active in
that always. feel free to drop me a note
and I'll, you know, always pretty
available. And then outside of that, uh,
Telegram as well, we have links
available. YouTube has a ton of great
content on it. So, Quin Network on
YouTube has a ton of great resources
about what we're building. AMAs, uh,
breakdowns, tutorials on how to run a
node, how to run a minor, how to get
your Pelgus wallet set up, how to get
involved with the ecosystem. So, all of
those things are, uh, ways in which you
can go dive into more. Awesome. Well,
Alan, thank you for sharing an hour of
your time with us. It was really fun to
dig into Qui with you. Appreciate it,
Dylan. Looking forward to being back.
Cheers. Thank you so much for tuning in
to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in
the loop with all of our latest episodes
and insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all our video content. If
you enjoyed today's discussion, please
consider showing your support by liking,
commenting, and reviewing this episode
on your favorite podcasting platform.
Your feedback helps us reach more
listeners and brings even better content
your way. We'd also love to hear from
you, so please drop a comment on Spotify
or YouTube to share what topics you'd
like us to cover or who you'd like to
see as our next guest. And if you or
someone you know might make a great
guest, feel free to reach out. We're
always looking for fresh voices and new
perspectives. And for our NEO token
holders out there, please consider
voting for NEON News today as your
council representative. We've proudly
been serving the NEO ecosystem since
2017 and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives. Thank you so much again for
listening to the Smart Economy podcast
and we will catch you on the next
episode.